RFC(dm): Add enhanced pre-check rfc (#3674)
pingcap/tiflow: dm/docs/RFCS/20211130_enhanced_pre_checker.md

# Enhanced pre-check Design

## Background

> Before the DM’s task starts, we should check some items to avoid start-task failures. You can see the details in our [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#%E5%85%B3%E9%97%AD%E6%A3%80%E6%9F%A5%E9%A1%B9). In order to allow some users to use DM normally under certain circumstances, we can also set ignore-check-items in task.yaml to ignore some items that you don’t want to check. Now, we find some shortcomings in regard to check-items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the DM’s task starts, we should check some items to avoid start-task failures. You can see the details in our [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#%E5%85%B3%E9%97%AD%E6%A3%80%E6%9F%A5%E9%A1%B9). In order to allow some users to use DM normally under certain circumstances, we can also set ignore-check-items in task config to ignore some items that you don’t want to check. Now, we find some shortcomings in regard to check-items.
```

### Bad user habits
We allow users to ignore all check-items, in which case the user's authority is too large to perform unexpected operations. 
### Too much time overhead
If we have a large number of tables in source, we will take too much time in checking table schema, sharding table consistency and sharding table auto increment key.
### Inadequate check
- If downstream creates tables manually and the new downstream’s auto increment ID is not the same as the upstream, we shouldn’t check **auto_increment_ID** for errors. Users should be responsible for what they set.
- Dump privilege only checks RELOAD and SELECT. However, Dumpling supports different [consistency configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9), which need more privilege.

> - If online-ddl is set by true and a ddl is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, ghost table has been created, is executing the ddl, but is not renamed yet. In this case, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed after the dump phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, ghost table has been created, is executing the DDL, but is not renamed yet. In this case, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed after the dump phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).
```

* If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, ghost table has been created, is executing the DDL, but is not renamed yet. In this case, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed after the dump phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).
* For schema_of_shard_tables, whatever pessimistic task and optimistic task, we all check it by comparing all sharding tables’ structures for consistency simply. For optimistic mode, we can do better.

## Proposal

### Restrict user usage
1. Remove the following settings from the [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#%E5%85%B3%E9%97%AD%E6%A3%80%E6%9F%A5%E9%A1%B9). If the following items are detected to be set in the configuration, a warning will be reported.
    - all
    - dump_privilege
    - replication_privilege
    - server_id
    - binlog_enable
    - binlog_format
    - binlog_row_image

> 2. If task is full/all mode, the following items will be forced to check (correspondingly, it will not be check in increment mode):

Reviewer 2: what's the ignore rule for the items not listed in step 2 and 3

Author: The items not listed in step 2 and 3 will be checked if user don't set in `ignore-check-items`. If user set it, dm will ignore them.

It is same as now.

Author: sgtm. L80-82 is our efforts.

So, we should deprecate all `ignore_check_items`. cc @sunzy

Reviewer 3: Agree with lance6716. Critical check items should not be allowed to be ignored, which would potentially lead to data loss or unnecessary oncall.

Before ignore the check because there is a performance problem, if the performance problem is solved, I can not yet think of any cases where there is a reason to skip @okJiang

    - dump_privilege
3. If task is increment/all mode, the following items will be forced to check (correspondingly, it will not be check in full mode):
    - replication_privilege
    - server_id
    - binlog_enable
    - binlog_format
    - binlog_row_image

### Speed ​​up check

1. Support concurrent check
    - table_schema
    - schema_of_shard_tables
    - auto_increment_ID

> 2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

Author: yes, this is a problem.

> 2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

Author: So, should we add a new config item? @sunzhaoyang

> 2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

Reviewer 4: I don't think we should add a new config item for checks. What about `syncers.worker-count` or adjust by table numbers?

> 2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

Author: I think the latter is better.

> 2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

Author: If we adjust by table numbers, how many tables do we cover each connection is better? @lichunzhu

#### How to speed up?

Since every checker is concurrent, we can split tables to **source_connection_concurrency** part, and create a checker for every part. 

### Optimize some check

> 1. If downstream creates tables manually and the new downstream’s auto increment ID is not the same as the upstream, we shouldn’t check **auto_increment_ID**.

Reviewer 2: maybe "the column of auto increment ID in upstream does not has an unique constraint in downstream"

Author: Add related description in a003e1f.

> 2. Dump_privilege will check different privileges according to different [consistency](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9) and downstream on source.

Reviewer 2: I remember there should also be SELECT privilege on some system tables :thinking: 

cc @lichunzhu

Reviewer 4: For MySQL, we need SELECT privilege to `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES`
For TiDB, we need SELECT privilege to `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS`, `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PLACEMENT_RULES`, `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLUSTER_INFO`, `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_SERVERS_INFO`, `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PARTITIONS`.

    - For all consistency, we will check
        - REPLICATION CLIENT (global)
        - SELECT (only dump table)
    - For flush consistency：
        - RELOAD (global)
    - For flush/lock consistency：
        - LOCK TABLES (only dump table)
    - For TiDB downstream：
        - PROCESS (global)

> 3. Add OnlineddlChecker to check if a ddl exists in online-ddl stage when DM task is all mode and online-ddl is true. It will be forced to check in all mode and not check in increment mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add OnlineDDLChecker to check if a ddl of tables in allow list exists in online-ddl stage when DM task is all mode and online-ddl is true. It will be forced to check in all mode and not checked in increment mode.
```

4. Enhance schema_of_shard_tables. 

>     - At first, if a machine exits the DM’s checkpoint, the DM’s subsequent task starts/resumes at the checkpoint. So we think the checkpoint guarantees consistency.

Reviewer 2: please re-write this sentence

Author: fixed in a003e1f

    - If not exit checkpoint:
        - For all/full mode (pessimistic task): we keep the original check;
        - For all/full mode (optimistic task): we check whether the shard tables schema meets the definition of [Optimistic Schema Compatibility](20191209_optimistic_ddl.md). If that meets, we can create tables by the compatible schema in the dump stage.
        - For incremental mode: not check the sharding tables’ schema, because the table schema obtained from show create table is not the schema at the point of binlog.
5. Make the fail state more gentle, which is from `StateFailure` to `StateWarning`.

>     - checkAutoIncrementKey

Reviewer 2: `checkAutoIncrementKey` is duplicated with auto_increment_ID?

Author: Yes they are the same thing.

Reviewer 2: we'd better use one name for it.

Author: You can think of `checkAutoIncrementKey` and `checkPK/UK` as a description with a smaller granularity than `ignore_check_items`'s auto_increment_ID.

    - checkPK/UK

### Remove checker from tidb-tools to DM

> After this change, checker is deeply coupled to DM, both with dump Privilege and optimistic pessimistic coordination. And checker is only used by DM (TiCDC and TiDB all don't use it). So removing checker from tidb-tools to DM is more convenient for development work。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After this change, checker is deeply coupled to DM, both with dump privilege and optimistic pessimistic coordination. And checker is only used by DM (TiCDC and TiDB all don't use it). So removing checker from tidb-tools to DM is more convenient for development work。
```

# Enhanced pre-check Design

## Background

> Before the DM’s task starts, we should check some items to avoid start-task failures. You can see the details in our [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#%E5%85%B3%E9%97%AD%E6%A3%80%E6%9F%A5%E9%A1%B9). In order to allow some users to use DM normally under certain circumstances, we can also set ignore-check-items in task config to ignore some items that you don’t want to check. Now, we find some shortcomings in regard to check-items.

Reviewer 5: I think we'd better change all the doc links to its English version since this doc is written in English.

### Bad user habits

We allow users to ignore all check-items, in which case the user's authority is too large to perform unexpected operations. 

### Too much time overhead

If we have a large number of tables in source, we will take too much time in checking table schema, sharding table consistency and sharding table auto increment key.

### Inadequate check

* If downstream creates tables manually and the new downstream’s auto increment ID is not the same as the upstream, we shouldn’t check **auto_increment_ID** for errors. Users should be responsible for what they set.

> * Dump privilege only checks RELOAD and SELECT. However, Dumpling supports different [consistency configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9), which need more privilege.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Dump privilege only checks RELOAD and SELECT. However, Dumpling supports different [consistency configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9), which need more privileges.
```

* If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, ghost table has been created, is executing the DDL, but is not renamed yet. In this case, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed after the dump phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).
* For schema_of_shard_tables, whatever pessimistic task and optimistic task, we all check it by comparing all sharding tables’ structures for consistency simply. For optimistic mode, we can do better.

## Proposal

### Speed ​​up check

1. Support concurrent check
    - table_schema
    - schema_of_shard_tables
    - auto_increment_ID
2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

#### How to speed up?

Since every checker is concurrent, we can split tables to **source_connection_concurrency** part, and create a checker for every part. 

### Optimize some check

> 1. We needn’t check **auto_increment_ID**, if the column of auto increment ID in upstream does not has an unique constraint in downstream.

Reviewer 5: Please add a description that the **auto_increment_ID** is only checked for sharding tables.

Author: Added in background https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3674/commits/eabe327b15bbd945a4b80d659237202b22f39433

Author: Seems that it is difficult to support concurrent check auto_increment_ID. Now we check it by `mapping` which is deprecated. If we don't set the `mapping` and don't ignore the `auto_increment_ID`, the pre-check will report an error.

So how about we report a warning to user and tell them the method that can resolve the PK/UK conflict. I think this is enough.

also cc @lance6716

Reviewer 2: sgtm.

Author: update in https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3674/commits/66d1ebd59dc18ead627a8d9fd89df3a4f2ac7fde

2. Dump_privilege will check different privileges according to different [consistency](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9) and downstream on source.

>     - For all consistency, we will check

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    For all consistency, we will check
```

Author: This change will break the markdown format.

        - REPLICATION CLIENT (global)
        - SELECT (only dump table)
    - For flush consistency：
        - RELOAD (global)

>     - For flush/lock consistency：
>         - LOCK TABLES (only dump table)

Reviewer 4: These quotations `：` should be replaced by `:`
```suggestion
    - For flush/lock consistency:
        - LOCK TABLES (only tables to dump)
```

>     - For TiDB downstream：

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - For TiDB source databases:
```

* For schema_of_shard_tables, whether it's a pessimistic task or an optimistic task, we all simply check consistency of schema by comparing all sharding tables’ structures. For optimistic mode, we can do better.

## Proposal

### Speed ​​up check

1. Support concurrent check
    - table_schema
    - schema_of_shard_tables
    - auto_increment_ID
2. We casn adjust the concurrency by table numbers.

### Optimize some check

1. **auto_increment_ID** only checked in sharding mode.
    - If table exist auto increment ID, report a warning to user and tell them the method that can resolve the PK/UK conflict;
        1. If you set PK to AUTO_INCREMENT, you must make sure that the primary key in sharding tables is not duplicated;
        2. If sharding tables have duplicated PK, you can refer to [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-of-auto-increment-primary-key).
2. Dump_privilege will check different privileges according to different [consistency](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#adjust-dumplings-data-consistency-options) and downstream on source.
    - For all consistency, we will check

>         - REPLICATION CLIENT (global)

Reviewer 2: this is used in incremental phase, I think dumpling don't need it.

Also, all consistency options should be aligned with https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3674#discussion_r762777211

Author: ptal @lichunzhu 

Why dumpling need REPLICATION CLIENT privilege?

Reviewer 4: Because `SHOW MASTER STATUS` needs `REPLICATION CLIENT` privilege?

Author: also `SHOW SLAVE HOSTS` need `REPLICATION SLAVE` privilege

https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/blob/84acdbc550c66cf28ee2412afbe6e07fbe39ac84/dm/pkg/utils/db.go#L106

Reviewer 2: DM has a test of revoking REPLICATION CLIENT and start a full mode task. So I expect dumpling will not fail the dump without this privilege and we only require it for incremental task

Author: After test, dump phase does not need REPLICATION CLIENT and REPLICATION SLAVE. I will remove them.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should check this privilege according to the task mode.
For all/incremental task we need these two privileges. For full mode it's not needed.

Author: Yes, we still have ReplicationPrivilegeChecker, which can check them in all/incremental task.

        - SELECT (only dump table)
    - For flush consistency:
        - RELOAD (global)
    - For flush/lock consistency:
        - LOCK TABLES (only tables to dump)

>     - For TiDB source databases:

Reviewer 2: this is not a consistency option, while rest of list are consistency options.

and I'm not sure why we need PROCESS privilege

Author: also @lichunzhu

Reviewer 4: Because we need to get pd address from `information_schema.cluster_info`/`information_schema.tidb_servers_info` then use `UpdateServiceGCSafePoint` function to update gc safepoint.

Reviewer 2: in DM's scenario these privileges are used :thinking:

        - PROCESS (global)

> 3. Add OnlineDDLChecker to check if a DDL of tables in allow list exists in online-ddl stage when DM task is all mode and online-ddl is true.

Reviewer 2: naming styles are inconsistent, schema_of_shard_tables vs OnlineDDLChecker

Author: schema_of_shard_tables is a name left over from history because of `ignore_checking_items`.

But we will deprecate `ignore_checking_items`. So I don't have to name OnlineDDLChecker for `ignore_checking_items`.

OnlineDDLChecker is its `Checker` name.

It is true that there is no uniformity in this rfc. After this feature completed, there is no such problem. All `ignore_checking_items` will be instead of its Checker name.

4. Enhance schema_of_shard_tables. 
    - If a task has passed the pre-checking when starting and exited, DM should keep the consistency during the task running. So we **don't check it** when restart the task.

>     - If not exit checkpoint:

Reviewer 2: what's the meaning of "If not exit checkpoint"?

Author: typo😂 

exit ==> exist

### Bad user habits

We allow users to ignore all check-items, in which case the user's authority is too large to perform unexpected operations. 

### Too much time overhead

If we have a large number of tables in source, we will take too much time in checking table schema, sharding table consistency and sharding table auto increment key.

### Inadequate check

* Now we check it by `mapping` which is deprecated. If we don't set the `mapping` and don't ignore the **auto_increment_ID**, the pre-check will report an error. PS: **auto_increment_ID** is only checked when **schema_of_shard_tables** is true.
* Dump privilege only checks RELOAD and SELECT. However, Dumpling supports different [consistency configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#adjust-dumplings-data-consistency-options), which need more privileges.

> * If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, ghost table has been created, is executing the DDL, but is not renamed yet. In this case, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed after the dump phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, when ghost table has been created but not been renamed, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed during the incremental phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).
```

> * For schema_of_shard_tables, whatever pessimistic task and optimistic task, we all check it by comparing all sharding tables’ structures for consistency simply. For optimistic mode, we can do better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For schema_of_shard_tables, whether it's a pessimistic task or an optimistic task, we all simply check consistency of schema by comparing all sharding tables’ structures. For optimistic mode, we can do better.
```

## Proposal

### Speed ​​up check

1. Support concurrent check
    - table_schema
    - schema_of_shard_tables
2. Use mydumper.threads as **source_connection_concurrency**, which should update in our document.

#### How to speed up?

> Since every checker is concurrent, we can split tables to **source_connection_concurrency** part, and create a checker for every part. 

Reviewer 2: that's too much details, I prefer we remove this section because any concurrent dispatching implementation is OK. For example, many consumer reading a channel when it is idle.

### Optimize some check

> 1. Move **auto_increment_ID** from **schema_of_shard_tables** to **table_schema**.

Reviewer 2: auto_increment_ID is a problem only in shard merging case, so it should only be checked in shard merging items

> 2. We can adjust the concurrency by table numbers.

Reviewer 2: also can we batch the request by multi-statement or something?

Author: just run mutil-thread to execute `show create table`. Can't batch the request. The [draft](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3975)

Reviewer 2: can we use INFORMATION_SCHEMA to get the table structure? @lichunzhu PTAL.

when the number of table is large and we have a high latency network

Author: This is the test result from https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3975/files#diff-d6ce4d888f567f277d6f1304165d1b3cca440f6563ecb742d7c3a80f7d411b8f

---------------
## 4 threads 10000 tables
|test mechine|added delay|spend time|
| ------------|-----------|---------|
|local|0 ms|3.9 s|
|125|0 ms|8.5 s|
|125|10 ms|31.7 s|
|106|0 ms|11.2 s|
|106|10 ms|29.6 s|
|106|20 ms|54.5 s|
|106|50 ms|128.5 s|
|106|100 ms|253 s|
----------------

I intend to keep the delay under a minute(@sunzhaoyang 's thought).

In other words, if number of table is greater than 5000 and less than 10000, we use 16 threads. If number of table is greater than 10000 and less than 20000, we use 32 threads. The spend time is almost under a minute.

If number is greater than 20000, maybe user can afford the spend time(Will grow linear growth). Or we can use more threads? 64, 128...

Reviewer: when we incr check thread, do we also adjust mysql_max_connections to 16/32 ?

Reviewer: beacause there is limited underlying  connection count behiend `sql.DB` more thread count than this number(underlying  connection count) can not speed up check process

Author: Even if we adjust mysql_max_connection to 16/32, we seem can't guarantee no other connection with this MySQL.

Reviewer: yes, so my point is maybe we should just use `mysql.MaxConnectionCount` as concurrent count when need check table num lagre than `mysql.MaxConnectionCount`

    - Only check if tables exist auto increment ID;
    - If table exist, report a warning to user and tell them the method that can resolve the PK/UK conflict;
        1. If you set PK to AUTO_INCREMENT, you must make sure that the primary key in sharding tables is not duplicated;

>         2. If sharding tables exit duplicated PK, you can refer to [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-of-auto-increment-primary-key).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        2. If sharding tables have duplicated PK, you can refer to [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-of-auto-increment-primary-key).
```

        - SELECT (only INFORMATION_SCHEMA's tables and dump tables)
    - For flush consistency:
        - RELOAD (global)

>     - For flush/lock consistency:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

we can remove it or explicitly address no privileges are required

Author: My fault. I accidentally deleted one more line——`LOCK TABLES`.

>         - LOCK TABLES (only dump tables)

Author: After test, found that `flush tables with read lock` does not need this privilege. We juse used `flush tables with read lock`.😭

remove it.

4. Enhance schema_of_shard_tables. 
    - If a task has passed the pre-checking when starting and exited, DM should keep the consistency during the task running. So we **don't check it** when restart the task.
    - If there does not exist checkpoints:
        - For all/full mode (pessimistic task): we keep **the original check**;
        - For all/full mode (optimistic task): we check whether the shard tables schema meets **the definition of [Optimistic Schema Compatibility](20191209_optimistic_ddl.md)**. If that meets, we can create tables by the compatible schema in the dump stage.
        - For incremental mode: **not check** the sharding tables’ schema, because the table schema obtained from show create table is not the schema at the point of binlog.
5. Version checker will report a warning in the following cases:
    - MySQL < 5.6.0
    - MySQL >= 8.0.0
    - Mariadb

>     - Others

Reviewer 2: "Others" will be hard to check because they will pretend themself as MySQL and we need case-by-case method to check them.

### Restrict user usage
1. Remove all `ignore_check_items` settings from the [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#disable-checking-items). If the following items are detected to be set in the configuration, a warning will be reported.
2. If task is full/all mode, the following items will be forced to check (correspondingly, it will not be check in increment mode):
    - dump_privilege
    - schema_of_shard_tables(only for sharding mode)
3. If task is increment/all mode, the following items will be forced to check (correspondingly, it will not be check in full mode):
    - replication_privilege
    - server_id
    - binlog_enable
    - binlog_format
    - binlog_row_image

>     - online_ddl(new added)

Reviewer: need check `Binlog_Do_DB`

Author: add it in https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3674/commits/2ea1a63c2d7cedfb2dda6e9059be15807f674acf

> 4. The following items will be forced to check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The following items will always be forced to check:
```

        - PROCESS (global)
3. Add OnlineDDLChecker to check if a DDL of tables in allow list exists in online-ddl stage when DM task is all mode and online-ddl is true. It will be forced to check in all mode and not checked in increment mode.
4. Enhance schema_of_shard_tables. 
    - At first, if a machine exits the DM’s checkpoint and then DM start/resume task, we think the checkpoint guarantees consistency. So we don't check it.
    - If not exit checkpoint:
        - For all/full mode (pessimistic task): we keep the original check;
        - For all/full mode (optimistic task): we check whether the shard tables schema meets the definition of [Optimistic Schema Compatibility](20191209_optimistic_ddl.md). If that meets, we can create tables by the compatible schema in the dump stage.
        - For incremental mode: not check the sharding tables’ schema, because the table schema obtained from show create table is not the schema at the point of binlog.
5. Make the fail state more gentle, which is from `StateFailure` to `StateWarning`.
    - checkAutoIncrementKey
    - checkPK/UK

### Remove checker from tidb-tools to DM

> After this change, checker is deeply coupled to DM, both with dump privilege and optimistic pessimistic coordination. And checker is only used by DM (TiCDC and TiDB all don't use it). So removing checker from tidb-tools to DM is more convenient for development work。

Reviewer: do we have a plan on how to remove checker in tidb-tools? before this pr or after this pr merged?

Author: In detail, we do not take the initiative to submit pr to the tidb-tools repository. Instead, we will replace the checker in tidb-tools step by step during the development of this features

Reviewer: so at last we will have two checker compontent in dm and tidb-tools ?

Author: Yes, but DM will completely get rid of tidb-tools checker's ​​dependence.

Author: Maybe not completely get rid of tidb-tools checker. We may wrap our own checker layer on top of it, which depends on whether our development is convenient and efficient.

Reviewer: sgtm

* If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, when ghost table has been created but not been renamed, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed during the incremental phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).
* For schema_of_shard_tables, whether it's a pessimistic task or an optimistic task, we all simply check consistency of schema by comparing all sharding tables’ structures. For optimistic mode, we can do better.
* Version checker checks that MySQLVersion >= 5.6.0 and MariadbVersion >= 10.1.2 before. However, we find more and more incompatibility problems in MySQLVersion >= 8.0.0 and Mariadb. In view of supporting MySQL 8.0 and Mariadb is experimental yet, checker will report a warning for them.

## Proposal

### Speed ​​up check

1. Support concurrent check
    - table_schema
    - schema_of_shard_tables
    - auto_increment_ID

> 2. We casn adjust the concurrency by table numbers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. We can adjust the concurrency by table numbers.
```

### Optimize some check

> 1. **auto_increment_ID** only checked in sharding mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Auto_increment_ID only be checked in sharding mode.
```

because below we use Dump_privilege

>     - If table exist auto increment ID, report a warning to user and tell them the method that can resolve the PK/UK conflict;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If table exists auto increment ID, report a warning to user and tell them the method that can resolve the PK/UK conflict;
```

And if they have finished the resolving, such as manually created the table and removed AUTO INCREMENT, we should not report the warning.

Author: sgtm

        1. If you set PK to AUTO_INCREMENT, you must make sure that the primary key in sharding tables is not duplicated;
        2. If sharding tables have duplicated PK, you can refer to [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/shard-merge-best-practices#handle-conflicts-of-auto-increment-primary-key).

> 2. Dump_privilege will check different privileges according to different [consistency](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#adjust-dumplings-data-consistency-options) and downstream on source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Dump_privilege will check different privileges according to different [consistency](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#adjust-dumplings-data-consistency-options) on source.
```

I think downstream will not bother dump privileges 🤔

Author: yes

    - For all consistency, we will check
        - REPLICATION CLIENT (global)
        - SELECT (only INFORMATION_SCHEMA's tables and dump tables)
    - For flush consistency:
        - RELOAD (global)
    - For flush/lock consistency:
        - LOCK TABLES (only dump tables)
    

>     As we know, TiDB is different from MySQL in some place. If source is TiDB, we also need:

Reviewer 2: we have not plan to support TiDB source in my memory 🤔

Author: Indeed. 😂 Do we need to do something for TiDB source? @lichunzhu

Author: Maybe for all source expect MySQL and MariaDB, we all report a warning? @lance6716

    - PROCESS (global)
3. Add OnlineDDLChecker to check if a DDL of tables in allow list exists in online-ddl stage when DM task is all mode and online-ddl is true.
4. Enhance schema_of_shard_tables. 
    - If a task has passed the pre-checking when starting and exited, DM should keep the consistency during the task running. So we **don't check it** when restart the task.

>     - If not exist checkpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If there does not exist checkpoints:
```

        - For all/full mode (pessimistic task): we keep **the original check**;

>         - For all/full mode (optimistic task): we check whether the shard tables schema meets **the definition of [Optimistic Schema Compatibility](20191209_optimistic_ddl.md)**. If that meets, we can create tables by the compatible schema in the dump stage.

Author: @GMHDBJD said, we needn't help user to create tables. Because we don't guarantee eventual consistency. For example, sourceA has a table(column a, b), sourceB has a table(column a, c), we don't know the generated table is (a, b, c) or (a, c, d). If the column order is incorrect, our sync will be wrong. @lance6716 @glorv

Reviewer 2: do you mean "(a, b, c) or (a, c, b)"?

columns can be unordered I think

        - For incremental mode: **not check** the sharding tables’ schema, because the table schema obtained from show create table is not the schema at the point of binlog.

> 5.  Version checker will report a warning in the following cases:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Version checker will report a warning in the following cases:
```

    - MySQL < 5.6.0
    - MySQL >= 8.0.0
    - Mariadb

### Restrict user usage
1. Remove all `ignore_check_items` settings from the [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#disable-checking-items). If the following items are detected to be set in the configuration, a warning will be reported.
2. If task is full/all mode, the following items will be forced to check (correspondingly, it will not be check in increment mode):
    - dump_privilege
    - schema_of_shard_tables(only for sharding mode)
3. If task is increment/all mode, the following items will be forced to check (correspondingly, it will not be check in full mode):
    - replication_privilege
    - server_id
    - binlog_enable
    - binlog_format
    - binlog_row_image
    - online_ddl(new added)

> 4. If task is full/increment/all mode, the following items will be forced to check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The following items will be forced to check:
```

    - version
    - table_schema
    - auto_increment_ID(only for sharding mode)
5. Make the fail state more gentle, which is from `StateFailure` to `StateWarning`.

>     - checkVersion(same as version)

Reviewer 2: naming is not like OnlineDDLChecker. maybe VersionChecker?

    - checkAutoIncrementKey(same as auto_increment_ID)
    - checkPK/UK

### Move checker from [tidb-tools](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools/tree/master/pkg/check) to DM

> After this change, checker is deeply coupled to DM, both with dump Privilege and optimistic pessimistic coordination. And checker is only used by DM (TiCDC and TiDB all don’t use it). So removing checkers from tidb-tools to DM is more convenient for development work。

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After this change, checker is deeply coupled to DM, both with dump privilege checking and optimistic pessimistic coordination. And checker is only used by DM (TiCDC and TiDB all don’t use it). So removing checkers from tidb-tools to DM is more convenient for development work。
```

### Inadequate check

* If downstream creates tables manually and the new downstream’s auto increment ID is not the same as the upstream, we shouldn’t check **auto_increment_ID** for errors. Users should be responsible for what they set.
* Dump privilege only checks RELOAD and SELECT. However, Dumpling supports different [consistency configurations](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9), which need more privilege.
* If online-ddl is set by true and a DDL is in online-ddl stage, DM will have a problem in all mode. Specifically, ghost table has been created, is executing the DDL, but is not renamed yet. In this case, DM will report an error when the ghost table is renamed after the dump phase. You can learn more about online-ddl [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/feature-online-ddl).
* For schema_of_shard_tables, whatever pessimistic task and optimistic task, we all check it by comparing all sharding tables’ structures for consistency simply. For optimistic mode, we can do better.

## Proposal

### Restrict user usage

> 1. Remove the following settings from the [document](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/precheck#%E5%85%B3%E9%97%AD%E6%A3%80%E6%9F%A5%E9%A1%B9). If the following items are detected to be set in the configuration, a warning will be reported.

Reviewer 3: warning will be reported and the check item will be still force checked or ignored?

Author: Check items will be executed by the default as follow.

### Optimize some check

1. We needn’t check **auto_increment_ID** in following situation:
    - If downstream creates tables manually and the new downstream’s auto increment ID is not the same as the upstream;
    - If the column of auto increment ID in upstream does not has an unique constraint in downstream.
2. Dump_privilege will check different privileges according to different [consistency](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dumpling-overview#%E8%B0%83%E6%95%B4-dumpling-%E7%9A%84%E6%95%B0%E6%8D%AE%E4%B8%80%E8%87%B4%E6%80%A7%E9%80%89%E9%A1%B9) and downstream on source.
    - For all consistency, we will check
        - REPLICATION CLIENT (global)
        - SELECT (only dump table)
    - For flush consistency：
        - RELOAD (global)
    - For flush/lock consistency：
        - LOCK TABLES (only dump table)
    - For TiDB downstream：
        - PROCESS (global)
3. Add OnlineDDLChecker to check if a DDL of tables in allow list exists in online-ddl stage when DM task is all mode and online-ddl is true. It will be forced to check in all mode and not checked in increment mode.
4. Enhance schema_of_shard_tables. 

>     - At first, if a machine exits the DM’s checkpoint and then DM start/resume task, we think the checkpoint guarantees consistency. So we don't check it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If a task has passed the pre-checking when starting and exited, DM should keep the consistency during the task running. So we don't check it when restart the task.
```
